N1C WAF Security Dashboard Release (#1834)
nginx/documentation: content/nginx-one-console/waf-integration/waf-security-dashboard/default-log-profile.md

---
nd-content-type: concept
nd-docs: DOCS-000
nd-product: NONECO
title: secops_dashboard log profile
description: "An immutable, pre-compiled F5 WAF for NGINX log profile that captures the security telemetry the security dashboard needs."
weight: 200
toc: true

> nd-keywords: "default log profile, security dashboard, F5 WAF for NGINX, log profile, security telemetry, NAP log profile"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nd-keywords: "secops_dashboard, default log profile, security dashboard, F5 WAF for NGINX, log profile, security telemetry, NAP log profile, system-managed profile, pre-compiled, immutable log profile, NGINX One Console, WAF log profile"
```

Reviewer 2: redundant? This perhaps.

```
nd-keywords: "secops_dashboard, F5 WAF for NGINX, NGINX One Console, WAF log profile, security dashboard, NAP telemetry"
```

Reviewer 2: accepted your suggestion.

nd-summary: >
  The `secops_dashboard` log profile is a pre-configured F5 WAF for NGINX log profile that captures security violations in a standardized format for the security monitoring dashboard. It is the default log profile used by the security dashboard.
  Use it to send security telemetry from your NGINX Plus data planes to NGINX One Console without authoring or compiling a custom log profile.
  This document covers what the `secops_dashboard` log profile is, when to use it, and how it differs from custom log profiles.
nd-audience: operator
---

> The security monitoring dashboard depends on a consistent set of fields being present on every security event. The `secops_dashboard` log profile is the contract that guarantees that consistency across every data plane forwarding events to NGINX One Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The security monitoring dashboard depends on a consistent set of fields being present on every security event. The `secops_dashboard` log profile is the guarantee of that consistency: it ensures every data plane forwards the same set of fields, so the dashboard can render every event correctly.
```

Reviewer 2: not sure why this suggestion? "contract" is jargon?

Reviewer 2: accepted your suggestion.

## What is the `secops_dashboard` log profile?

> The `secops_dashboard` log profile is a pre-configured, system-managed F5 WAF for NGINX log profile that captures the security telemetry fields the NGINX One Console security monitoring dashboard expects. It is the default log profile used by the security dashboard. NGINX One Console ships and maintains it; you cannot edit or delete it.

Reviewer 3: we don't "ship" anything? maybe just maintain it.

If you need a log profile with a different field set or filter rules, use **Make a copy** to create an editable, user-owned log profile based on `secops_dashboard`. The copy is a regular custom log profile and is not used by the security dashboard.

---

## Key characteristics

The `secops_dashboard` log profile has three properties that distinguish it from user-created log profiles.

- **Immutable**: You cannot edit or delete the `secops_dashboard` log profile. NGINX One Console manages it as a system resource so the security monitoring data format remains consistent across every instance and tenant.
- **Pre-compiled**: NGINX One Console automatically compiles the `secops_dashboard` log profile for every available WAF compiler version. Deployment completes immediately without an on-demand compilation step.
- **Standardized field set**: It captures every field the security dashboard reads, including the support ID, violation details, signature information, threat campaign matches, request context, and client geolocation. Filters and analytics in the dashboard assume these fields are present.

---

> ## Use cases

Reviewer: The concept guide recommends: "If the concept has more than three distinct use cases, present the two or three most representative ones." Three is acceptable, but the second use case ("Security engineer: keep dashboard data consistent during a policy change") partially overlaps with the first (both are about fleet-wide consistency). Consider whether the second use case adds enough distinct value or can be folded into the first as a sentence.

Reviewer 2: I will keep the 2nd but clarify the use case with better title

"Security engineer: rolling out a policy change without touching telemetry"

This signals that it's about change management, not consistency in general.

Reviewer 2: updated the title
